INTRODUCTION
------------

This is a package to make the transition to bufr reports from alphanumeric text easiest as 
possible. The intial commit is contributed from ogimet.com

A lot of software is coded asuming that the primary source of meteorological reports is in 
alphanumeric format.  Decode libraries are expecting this. But time is changing, 
meteorological services are migrating to BUFR and other binary formats. Most decode software 
have to be changed.

This is a software to get meteorological reports in old alphanumeric format from BUFR files. 
At the moment includes the following reports:

  - FM 12-XIV SYNOP
  - FM 13-XIV SHIP
  - FM 14-XIV SYNOP MOBIL
  - FM 18-XII BUOY

The software is based in bufrdc library from ECMWF.  *It have to be installed*. In that package
there is a synop2bufr application doing just the reverse task. You can grab this library from 

http://old.ecmwf.int/products/data/software/bufr.html

Follow the instructions to build and install bufrdc library. Then, you can use this package.

Note that the results from this library is not intended to match at %100 level to original
alphanumeric reports. It cannot. Some variables in alphanumeric code rules can be coded in
several ways, and there is not a regional even national decision about them. As example, the
'hshs' item (table code 1617) for synop FM-12 can be coded using 00-80 range or 90-99 one. 
A numeric value for heigh of base clouds can be coded in two ways. And there some few more
examples.


BUILD
-----

If you uses git repository, first time you clone the code you need to set the autotools files. 
To achieve this just from bufr2synop directory

   make -f Makefile.cvs

After this first task, you have to configure and make to build the package. Also if you get the 
package from a tarball you must do configure and make. From bufr2synop directory

  ./configure

and to build the package

  make

Assume you built the package. you will have three binaries

- bufr2synop . 
    Main binary to extract alphanumeric reports.
- bufr_decode . 
    A binary extracted and adapted from ECMWF bufrdc library. Is an example of use for 
    bufrdc library
- bufrnoaa
    An utility to extract and select bufr files from NOAA bin archives.

And also a library
- libbufr2syn  Used by bufr2synop

INSTALL
-------

See 'INSTALL' file in this package to get details. If you use default settings, then install will 
install all the files in '/usr/local' directory. So you will need root privileges. As example

  sudo make install

or

  su -c "make install"



A EXAMPLE OF USE

In a working dir we want to get a BUFR archive from NOAA GTS and see the reports we can to extract
from it.

1) Get a bufr bin file from NOAA. Is a cyclic directory file, with file names in the form sn.NNNN.bin 
NNNN varying from 0000 to 0120. We choose first one. Don't worry, the file is also included in examples
dir.

  wget http://weather.noaa.gov/pub/SL.us008001/DF.bf/DC.intl/sn.0000.bin

2) Then use 'bufrnoaa' to get a lot of files. Every file is a bufr report. We do not want all kind of 
bufr reports, just surface observations (land and oceanograpic). We can just do

   bufrnoaa  -f -T SO -S ACIMNSVW -O B -i sn.0000.txt

If we did this with examples/sn.0000.bin file we got 171 bufr files selected from 571 in the archive 
sn.0000.bin. Let choose one bufr file '20141018211119_ISIN03_EGRR_182100.bufr' (also in examples dir) 

To see the 'emulated' synop reports from this bufr 

   bufr2synop -i 20141018211119_ISIN03_EGRR_182100.bufr

We will get a list of 58 synops to stdout.

There are some more options for bufrnoaa and bufr2synop. You can see a list using 

   bufrnoaa -h

or

   bufr2synop

